# Company-Financials-Data-Analysis
Data analysis of company financials using Python, including sales data, profit margins, discount impact, and regression analysis, to inform strategic business decisions.

**Analyzing Financial Data of a Company for Strategic Insights**

## Table of Contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Data Used](#data-used)
- [Tools](#tools)
- [Objective](#objective)
- [Targeted Problem](#targeted-problem)
- [Analysis](#analysis)
  - [Step 1: Data Preparation](#step-1-data-preparation)
  - [Step 2: Discount Analysis](#step-2-discount-analysis)
  - [Step 3: Profit Margin Analysis](#step-3-profit-margin-analysis)
  - [Step 4: Discount Level vs. Profit (Simple Linear Regression)](#step-4-discount-level-vs-profit-simple-linear-regression)
  - [Step 5: Product Price vs. Units Sold (Simple Linear Regression)](#step-5-product-price-vs-units-sold-simple-linear-regression)
  - [Step 6: Month vs. Gross Sales (Polynomial Regression)](#step-6-month-vs-gross-sales-polynomial-regression)
- [How to Use](#how-to-use)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Running the Analysis](#running-the-analysis)
- [Contributors](#contributors)
- [License](#license)

## Introduction

This data analytics project focuses on conducting a comprehensive analysis of a company's financial data to gain insights into various aspects of the business. By employing data preparation techniques, discount analysis, profit margin analysis, regression analysis, and polynomial regression, we aim to uncover valuable information that can inform business decisions and strategies.

## Data Used

The primary dataset utilized in this project is obtained from [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/atharvaarya25/financials). It contains essential information related to sales transactions, including details such as product, pricing, discounts, costs, and various time-related attributes.

## Tools

To conduct this analysis, we employed the following Python libraries and tools:

- Pandas: Data manipulation and analysis.
- Numpy: Numerical operations and array manipulation.
- Matplotlib: Data visualization.
- Seaborn: Enhanced data visualization.
- Scikit-learn: Machine learning tools for regression analysis.

## Objective

Our project has the following objectives:

1. Perform comprehensive exploratory data analysis (EDA) on the financial dataset.
2. Quantify the influence of discounts on gross sales, identifying optimal discount levels.
3. Calculate, visualize, and interpret profit margins, highlighting areas for improvement.
4. Explore relationships between discount levels and profit using simple linear regression.
5. Analyze the correlation between product prices and units sold using simple linear regression.
6. Determine the impact of the month of the year on gross sales through polynomial regression.

## Targeted Problem

This project addresses the following key problem areas using the company's financial data:

1. Assessing the impact of discounts on gross sales.
2. Analyzing profit margins and their distribution.
3. Investigating relationships between discount levels and profit.
4. Evaluating the effect of product prices on units sold.
5. Understanding the influence of the month on gross sales.

## Analysis

Detailed analysis steps and code can be found in the Jupyter Notebook [here](notebooks/ProjectAnalysis.ipynb).

### How to Use

Follow these steps to set up and run the analysis for this project.

#### Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have met the following requirements:

- Python 3.x installed
- Jupyter Notebook installed
- Required Python packages: NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib, Seaborn, Scikit-learn

### Installation

1. Clone the repository to your local machine using Git.
2. Install the required Python libraries.

### Running the Analysis

1. Open the Jupyter Notebook
2. Navigate to the project folder and open the Company-Financials-Data-Analysis.ipynb file.
3. Execute the notebook cells one by one to perform data analysis.

That's it! You can now explore the insights and visualizations generated by the project.

## How to Contribute

Contributions to this project are welcome and encouraged. To get started, follow these steps:

1. **Fork the Repository**: Click the "Fork" button in the top right corner of this repository's page to create your own copy.

2. **Clone the Repository**: Clone your forked repository to your local machine using the following command. Replace `<your-username>` with your GitHub username.

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/your-repository.git
    ```

3. **Create a Branch**: Create a new branch to work on your feature or bug fix.

    ```bash
    git checkout -b branch-name
    ```

4. **Make Changes**: Make your desired changes to the codebase.

5. **Test Changes**: If applicable, test your changes thoroughly to ensure they work as expected.

6. **Commit Changes**: Commit your changes with a clear and concise commit message.

    ```bash
    git commit -m "Add feature or fix bug"
    ```

7. **Push Changes**: Push your changes to your forked repository on GitHub.

    ```bash
    git push origin branch-name
    ```

8. **Create a Pull Request**

9. **Review and Discuss**: Your pull request will be reviewed, and any necessary discussions or adjustments will be made.

10. **Merge Pull Request**: Once your changes are approved, your pull request will be merged into the main project.

Thank you for contributing to this project!

## Contributors

- Anuvansh Kumar (owner)

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
